Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE): Beginner to Pro

CHAPTER 1.2
Welcome

GCP Free Tier
https://cloud.google.com/free/

Intro to GCP Course
https://acloud.guru/learn/gcp-101?_ga=2.26899006.2039012411.1599675383-1543127166.1597030420&_gac=1.204213796.1598370630.EAIaIQobChMIp8uUydq26wIVjqgYCh0mgwq5EAEYASAAEgJ6HvD_BwE

Cloud Shell
https://cloud.google.com/shell/docs/launching-cloud-shell

Cloud Shell Editor
https://cloud.google.com/shell/docs/viewing-and-editing-files

GitHub Repo
https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/Course_GKE_Beginner_To_Pro

CHAPTER 1.5
Your First Container

Dockerfile Reference
https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/

CHAPTER 1.6
Lab: Your First Container

Lab Files in GitHub
https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/Course_GKE_Beginner_To_Pro/tree/master/Chapter_One/Lecture_4_Lab/myapp

CHAPTER 1.7
Ready to Start Your Container Journey?

The Twelve-Factor App
https://12factor.net/


CHAPTER 2.1
The Anatomy of a Cluster

GKE Cluster Architecture
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/cluster-architecture

CHAPTER 2.3
Forget Containers, Meet Pods!

GKE Pods
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/pod

CHAPTER 2.4
Lab: Creating Pods

Lab files in GitHub
https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/Course_GKE_Beginner_To_Pro/tree/master/Chapter_Two/Lecture_4_Lab

CHAPTER 2.5
ReplicaSets and Deployments

GKE Deployments
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/deployment

CHAPTER 2.6
Accessing Applications

GKE Services
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/service

CHAPTER 2.7
Lab: Deployments and Services

Lab Files in GitHub
https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/Course_GKE_Beginner_To_Pro/tree/master/Chapter_Two/Lecture_7_Lab/myapp


CHAPTER 3.1
Putting it all Together: Stateless Application Example

Lab files in GitHub
https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/Course_GKE_Beginner_To_Pro/tree/master/Chapter_Three/Lecture_1_Lab/redisdemo

10 Things That Used to Be on Every Website That You Totally Forgot About
https://www.hover.com/blog/10-things-that-used-to-be-on-every-website-that-you-totally-forgot-about/

CHAPTER 3.4
Lab: Maintaining a Service with Unhealthy Pods

Lab files in GitHub
https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/Course_GKE_Beginner_To_Pro/tree/master/Chapter_Three/Lecture_4_Lab/myapp

CHAPTER 3.5
Volumes and Persistent Storage

Persistent volumes with Persistent Disks
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/persistent-volumes

CHAPTER 3.6
Lab: Volumes and Persistent Storage

Lab files in GitHub
https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/Course_GKE_Beginner_To_Pro/tree/master/Chapter_Three/Lecture_6_Lab/mysql-demo

CHAPTER 3.7
ConfigMaps and Secrets

GKE ConfigMaps
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/configmap

GKE Secrets
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/secret

CHAPTER 3.9
Lab: Deployment Patterns

Lab files in GitHub
https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/Course_GKE_Beginner_To_Pro/tree/master/Chapter_Three/Lecture_9_Lab

CHAPTER 3.10
Autoscaling all the things

GKE Horizontal Pod Autoscaler
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/scaling-apps

GKE Cluster Autoscaler
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/cluster-autoscaler

CHAPTER 3.11
Lab: Autoscaling all the things

Lab files in GitHub
https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/Course_GKE_Beginner_To_Pro/tree/master/Chapter_Three/Lecture_11_Lab



CHAPTER 4.1
Helm: The Kubernetes Package Manager

Helm Website
https://helm.sh/

CHAPTER 4.2
Lab: Deploying Applications with Helm

Lab files in GitHub
https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/Course_GKE_Beginner_To_Pro/tree/master/Chapter_Four/Lecture_2_Lab

CHAPTER 4.3
Advances Ingress Control

NGINX Ingress Controller
https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/

CHAPTER 4.4
Lab: Routing Traffic with Ingress Controllers

Lab files in GitHub
https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/Course_GKE_Beginner_To_Pro/tree/master/Chapter_Four/Lecture_4_Lab/myapp

CHAPTER 4.5
High Availability Clusters and Workloads

GKE Regional Clusters
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/regional-clusters

CHAPTER 4.6
Lab: Global Load Balancing with Multi-Cluster Ingress

Lab files in GitHub
https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/Course_GKE_Beginner_To_Pro/tree/master/Chapter_Four/Lecture_6_Lab/manifests

Commands used in this lab
https://media.acloud.guru/gke-beginner-to-pro/resource/53b4e442-d3af-11e5-8ce7-9ec6347aad41_837cede0-234e-8c13-79b9-1a3dafae51b6/gke-beginner-to-pro-53b04a6d-cb8c-4fa7-957a-6c36d2d9d08c.txt?Expires=1604090820&Signature=AAs5ib/3nC6+U+gGeKsjWcFulCNlP+qj9PI20Hsm9ypN/UTHC+o6nSChxzGMqFHd6xQCb4JDS840K2ZwnjePtPsHuWt93E62bNgKKIMNef/yX8d8PrW/80dL4tidFiyyNxd8yWjCkLWYlB37FNv8VVlPTBZGtOE3m9pOeNVfaabQop1HzwE7xqkDbtg0KQI2+Ce1xPzIk/V6A4ES1Vim88XdNJ2ElaBI5eU/BNPC1x7u8AvIy0BoAz3WVQrEfNpXiAZyIs82e8H6Q4zygOtn7zYusqfjAuIyKp0DxbiGk4KwT1WT5kFcCAFONHiZDizPu2LbTLpIBahEF5RzjVTSRg==&Key-Pair-Id=APKAISLU6JPYU7SF6EUA&_ga=2.19575227.2039012411.1599675383-1543127166.1597030420&_gac=1.137154052.1598370630.EAIaIQobChMIp8uUydq26wIVjqgYCh0mgwq5EAEYASAAEgJ6HvD_BwE

CHAPTER 4.7
Running a Secure GKE Cluster

GKE Security Overview
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/security-overview

CHAPTER 4.8
Enhancing Cluster Nodes with DaemonSets

GKE DaemonSets
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/daemonset

CHAPTER 4.9
Stateful Applications and Workloads

GKE StatefulSets
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/statefulset

CHAPTER 4.10
Finite Tasks and Init Containers

GKE Jobs
https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/jobs

Kubernetes Init Containers
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/init-containers/

CHAPTER 4.11
Lab: Running a Stateful Cassandra Database

Lab file in GitHub
https://github.com/ACloudGuru-Resources/Course_GKE_Beginner_To_Pro/tree/master/Chapter_Four/Lecture_11_Lab/cassandra



CHAPTER 5.1
What Have we Learned So Far?

Monzo Bank case study
https://monzo.com/blog/2016/09/19/building-a-modern-bank-backend

CERN case study
https://kubernetes.io/case-studies/cern/

Pok√©mon GO case study
https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/gcp/bringing-pokemon-go-to-life-on-google-cloud

CHAPTER 5.2
Continuous Integration and Deployment

Continuous deployment to Google Kubernetes Engine using Jenkins
https://cloud.google.com/solutions/continuous-delivery-jenkins-kubernetes-engine

Getting started with GitLab CI/CD and Google Cloud Platform
https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2018/04/24/getting-started-gitlab-ci-gcp/

Google Cloud Build
https://cloud.google.com/cloud-build/

CHAPTER 5.3
Operators: Adding Logic to Deployments

Kubernetes Operator Pattern
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/

Crunchy Data PostgreSQL Operator
https://github.com/CrunchyData/postgres-operator

CHAPTER 5.4
Istio and Service Meshes

Istio website
https://istio.io/

Istio on GKE
https://cloud.google.com/istio/docs/istio-on-gke/overview

Kiali website
https://www.kiali.io/

CHAPTER 5.5
Serverless on Kubernetes

Knative website
https://knative.dev/

Google Cloud Run
https://cloud.google.com/run/

Cloud Run on GKE
https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/gke/setup

OpenFaaS website
https://www.openfaas.com/

CHAPTER 5.6
What's Next for GKE?

Kubernetes release notes
https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/release/notes/

GKE Advanced blog posts
https://cloud.google.com/blog/topics/gke-advanced

Anthos technical overview
https://cloud.google.com/anthos/docs/concepts/overview

CHAPTER 5.7
Thank You and Goodbye

Kubernetes Docs
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/what-is-kubernetes/
